I didn't go to A&M, I went to Texas Lutheran
instead. Oh, you didn't go? I thought you were
probably an ex. Okay, first of all, Mr. Coon, would
you tell us something about your early life,
including the names of your parents, the dates of
their birth and death, if you know them, where they
were born, where you were born, the schools you
attended before you came to Texas A&M. My father's
name was Victor A. Kuhn and my mother's name was
Beulah Riggs Kuhn and my father was born February
29th 1872 and he died March 27th 1926.
My mother was born August 25, 1877,
and she died
November 16, 1966.
I'm not certain which county my father was born in,
but I think it's probably in Victoria County. At
any rate, he was born in Texas, either Victoria or
Lavaca County. And my mother, I'm quite sure, was
born in Lavaca County, Texas.
What else? You were born when and where? I was born
near Runge, Texas. That's in Carnes County.
August 14, 1899. And did you go to school in Runge? I
went to Runge public school and high school. What
factors were involved in your choice of Texas A&M
as your school or college?
Well, I had heard a good deal about the school and
the life there, the type of, the fact that it was a
boys' school and living in dormitories. Had there
been some other boys from Rooney who went there
that you talked to? Yes, there was one that went a
year or two, several years before I did, Preston
Tom. I think he went there a year or two. But I never
had discussed it with him. But what you had heard
led you to believe that it would be a pretty good
place to go. Yes, that's true. Were there any
special procedures you had to go through to to be
admitted to the school?
I don't recall it. Our school grad certificate of
graduation, I think, was all I recall.
Did you just appear on the scene in time for
registration and were accepted then? That's
correct. You didn't have to go through the
application and acceptance procedure that's in
existence now? No, sir. No, sir. What was your
first reaction to the school and to College
Station when you arrived there? And you might tell
us also how you got there. Well, I got there by
train, of course. That's about the only way you
could get around in those days. Oh, my reaction
was, I guess, about like any other country boy. I
never had been anyplace except Rung End. It was new
to me. Wasn't any kind of reception committee
there to meet you? No, I didn't. To be aware, I
didn't see them. OK. How did you get your material
that you brought with you from the train station to
wherever you were going to stay?
And how were you assigned a place to stay the first
night, if you recall? I don't recall how we were
assigned. I know where I was assigned to, but I
don't remember in what way, and I don't remember
how I got my trunk. Well, at one point there was an
old Negro man by the name of Uncle Dan who had a team
of white mules that he carried baggage from the
train to the... Could have been, but I don't recall
it.
Did you stay your first night in the dormitory that
you stayed for the whole first year? Yes,
as far as I can recall, yes, I think so. Would you
describe, say, a typical day during your four
years there? What time did you get up, and how did
you wake up, and what hours did you spend in class,
and what hours did you spend doing other things,
and then what did you do about going to bed? Well, I,
of course, can't remember exactly the hour, but we
got up At that time, of course, everybody was in the
cadet corps. And we got up by the sound of Reveille
and we had a few minutes to get out and go through
some calisthenics, the first thing we did. And of
course we went back and got the rest of our uniform
on. Pretty soon we went to breakfast and we marched
to all the meals lined up along Military Walk. And
in the evening or noon, I've forgotten, one time a
day at least, we marched by band music to Mess Hall,
which was down at the end of Military Walk, Sopisa
Hall, I don't know what it was called. You want to
know what? Just approximately how many hours you
spent in class in a given day. I don't
remember that for sure. I'd say probably about
four. And
I would say, what, most of those would be in the
morning and in the afternoon? Yes, and then in the
afternoon we'd
have laboratory work and some time and we might
have had some classes in the afternoon but I don't
recall for sure uh what about drill we had drill
several times a week as I remembered but I don't
remember how many times out on the drill field
close order drill That's out in the field that's
now in front of the MSC? Yes, that's right. And what
time did you go to bed then? Well, they would blow
taps for us to go to bed, and best I recall is
somewhere around 10 o'clock, possibly 10.30, I
don't remember for sure. What was... lifelike in
the dormitory.
Well, once in a while we'd, I was in the basement of
Milner Hall, the freshmen, most of the freshmen
were in the basement, not all of them. I was in eye
company and we had a half of the basement of Milner
Hall and K Company had the other half.
And all the various things would happen, like
sometime during the night they'd throw sacks of
water in on your bed. That's one thing I can
remember. I don't
remember specifically. Milner Hall was what
fairly new at the time. Yeah it was fairly new. It
was located as you probably know down near the mess
hall. How many to a room? Two. And then what both
fish? During your freshman year you were both of
you in the room were freshmen? Yes my cousin who was
actually my foster brother went with me the first
year, and we roomed together. Okay.
You mentioned that you lived in Millner your
freshman year. Do you remember what other
dormitories you lived in? Yes, my sophomore and
junior year I lived in Leggett Hall, and senior
year I was in Buzell. That was new. That was a new
building that year and they at that time decided on
a policy of trying to separate the sophomores from
the freshmen other than those who were corporals
in the company and so they organized two companies
of sophomores and I had one of them, a fellow named
George captain of the other sophomore company.
Now, this was which year? My senior year. Your
senior year. Yes. OK. And for that reason, I don't
know very many of the fellows that were freshmen
the year that I finished, because there weren't
any freshmen. Well, you had only sophomores in
your company. OK. I noticed you switched from I
Company to D Company. D Second. D Second. That was
because the enrollment increased to the point
where they had to form another regiment. And that
caused it. And after two years in D Company, then
you switched to E Company. Yes. I did that because
that's where they... point it made me captain. Was
that a fairly common practice, what I was saying,
is taking somebody who had been a sergeant in one
company and making them a captain in another
company? No, I don't believe it was too common. I
think one thing it explained at that year is the
fact that, like I said, it was the first time they'd
had sophomore segregation, you might say, from
freshmen.
In
fact, another thing was the enrollment that year
had fallen off due to the war and just a few of us that
were in the officer's training camp who were in the
service at all that were able to get back and go to
school that year. They let
us start in January and run a little bit late, so we
were not in school, a good many of us, that fall.
That would be the fall of 1918. Right. Okay.
What was the food like in the mess hall? Well, I
didn't have any complaint about it. Enjoyed it.
Well, I've talked to a number of people who said
they gained a good bit of weight. Well, yes. I don't
know whether that was altogether due to the food.
Part of it might have been the regular hours that
you had to keep. Both of them, I think. But I imagine
you also got a fair amount of physical exercise to
counterbalance the food. Yes. Our drill was
enough for that. I can't remember just how many
times a week we did it but several times. Was there a
pretty good variety of food or was it pretty much
the same each week? Well,
I don't recall it being too much the same but I
really don't have a clear recollection.
very bad, or I think I'd remember it. I think it must
have been pretty satisfactory. What privileges
did the upperclassmen have that freshmen did not
enjoy? Well, freshmen didn't enjoy any to speak
of. As I remember it, we were allowed to go to Bryan
on Saturday afternoon, and I think we had to be back
for supper. As far as I can recall, that's the only
privilege that we had. If we had any others, I can't
recall. Okay, but what did upperclassmen have
then? Well,
they could go a little more often, but I don't
remember just how much. Go a little more often and
stay a little longer sometimes? Stay a little
longer, yes, sir, but I don't remember the
particulars about that. What kind of duties did
the freshmen have to perform for the
upperclassmen? Oh, I can't recall the duties, but
then every once in a while I'd have a little, you'd
bend it on you, you know, this hazing procedure. I
can't recall them. That's it. If you didn't do
something the way they wanted you to or something?
Well, no, I don't think it was for any particular
reason. It was just to let you know that you were a
freshman, I think. I don't recall it. Well, a
couple of people told me that they ran all kinds of
errands and made beds. I don't recall doing that.
I'm sure some of that was done, but I don't remember
doing that.
Was there any way that, say, a visitor to the campus
could distinguish the various classes from each
other? Say, how could you identify a freshman? Or
was there a way? I don't recall there was any way to
distinguish the classes other than that, to this
extent, All the corporals at that time were out of
the sophomore class, and all the sergeants and
first sergeants and so on were junior class, and
all the commissioned officers, lieutenant and
captain, major and colonel were senior class. If
they didn't, if there were not a, if a private way, I
don't recall if there was any way you could tell the
difference. But were there a pretty substantial
number who remained private the whole four years
they were there? There were a few senior privates
when I was there, yeah. Not many. Do you have any
idea why they never attained a higher rank? Well, I
assume because they weren't particularly
interested in the military part of it. At that
time, though, they did have to wear a uniform and
attend drill. But I would imagine, though, since
all corporals came from the sophomore class, if
you didn't make corporal as a sophomore, you
didn't have much chance of going up the rank. Well,
I didn't make it as a sophomore. When I was through
luck, I suppose, I was the first sergeant. So you
skipped the rank of corporal, then. You went
private to sergeant. That's right. Well, it was
the increase in enrollment that made two
regiments, which kind of doubled the number of
officers you had to have. Yeah, and then in my
senior year, the enrollment had dropped some on
account of the war.
What did the students do for entertainment and
recreation? I mean, how'd they occupy their time
when they weren't in class or drilling or anything
of that nature?
Did you? Well, one thing we'd sometimes do for
recreation, there was what they called a fish pond
about, I suppose it was a couple of miles
I guess it would be west. It was a pretty good-sized
pond of water, and we'd go out there swimming. This
would have been then probably across the railroad
tracks from the school. Yes, it was in the
direction of the railroad station on out. I
believe that would have been to the west, the best I
remember. At one point, this was probably later, I
guess, because there was a pond out there that was
part of the sewage treatment plant, I think, that
Mr. Giesecke had designed. Do
you know where Eastwood Airport is? No, I don't.
Okay. All right. Well, I don't imagine it's the
same thing, because you wouldn't have been
swimming in that unless they had... the lake and
later converted it to part of their sewage
treatment. Well that's possible.
Were there any things besides swimming did you
have anything to do at the YMCA? No
I never did. I don't know I don't remember whether
there was any recreation There was a YMCA there at
the time, but I don't remember whether it was any
recreation. At one point, there was a swimming
pool in the basement of the YMCA. If there was when I
was there, I don't remember. Did you participate
in any of the intramural athletics? Oh, I played
just a little bit of baseball, but very little. I
wasn't too hot. Were there a pretty substantial
percentage of the fellows who played baseball?
any intramural sports? Yes, I think a big percent
of them did. I gather it was a fairly competitive,
highly competitive
sort of thing, was it not? Yes, it was. I say that
because I've seen in some of the annuals where
people have been listed, they were part of the
championship basketball team, so it seems to have
been somewhat of an honor to have been on the
championship team. Did you have any favorite
teachers while you were there? If you can remember
who they were and why you liked them.
We're getting back too far.
I can't recall any in particular. Okay. I was
wondering, a couple of the people I've talked to, I
noticed you were in chemical engineering. Well, I
was like Dr. Hedges, who was the head of the
department at the time quite well but he didn't
actually teach me he was primarily
administration that's correct now what I was
getting at in chemical engineering did you take a
fair amount of chemistry courses in addition to
that a couple people that I've talked to have not
been particularly fond of the chemistry
department because I think that was kind of the
average attitude of most of them A goodly number of
people busted freshman chemistry. Yes, that's
true. Must have been a pretty tough one. What was
the attitude of the students toward the
administration? And I guess there would really
be, as I understand it, a dual administration
role. One, the president's office that sort of
handled the education end, and the commandant's
office that did the military end. That's true.
Well, as far as I know, the attitude of the students
was good. I don't recall any... Do you ever have any
contact with, I believe, Dr. Bezell? Yes, he was
president at the time. Was he fairly open to the
students? I mean, if you had a problem, could you go
see him about it? Well, I suppose that you could. I
never did, but I assume that you could. I don't... I
didn't have any occasions.
One of the things that is of interest to us at
present time is the number of the traditions and
customs that exist at Texas A&M. And we have some
difficulty pinpointing when things started and
things of that nature. Can you remember anything
new that was started while you were there? No,
sir, I don't believe I can recall anything. Did you
have a campus muster on April 21st? I can't recall
that we did. We used to have Yale practice, I know,
for... For ball games? Ball games, yeah. Midnight
Yale practices, sir. Well, no, they were long in
the evening. After
supper sometime. Between supper and the quiet
study hour. Study hour, yeah. Were there any girls
in any of the classes you attended?
I ask that because we know that at various and
sundry times there were a few girls. I was thinking
there might have been... Because this is the whole
thing. The people in the cities... I'm not sure
whether they were in my classes, but I think I can
recall there were one or two girls that they were
either daughters of professors or lived at Bryan,
something like that, but there were very few. I
don't recall for sure whether there was any in one
of my classes, but I believe there were two or three
there in the school at that time. Earlier, when we
were talking about entertainment, about
privileges, you mentioned about going to Bryan.
Yes. Was that on the, what was it called, the
Tunerville Trolley? Yeah, that was an interurban
car that ran by. What, for what purposes did the
students go to Bryan? Oh, just to, not anything in
particular, just to go to town. There was, I take it
then, really nothing as far as the town of College
Station was concerned. No stores, at least very
few. There were a few out on the fringes there, but
not many. Sort of in that area behind Speza? I
believe, yes, yeah.
So it was just a matter of getting off the campus for
a little while. That was about all there was to it,
the best I remember. We know that a substantial
percentage of the boys who went to A&M worked
part-time while they were there. Did you have any
time of employment? I did. In my freshman year, I
worked as a janitor some. But after that, I didn't
work anymore. About how much time did you put in
working? Oh, maybe uh...
I don't remember for sure. Maybe an hour a day or...
How much did you get an hour? Do you remember? No, I
don't have any recollection of that. Seems like
for a good long while the standard wages I believe
were 25 cents an hour. Well, I wouldn't be
surprised. I know at that time wages in general
were not very high.
Did the students who participated in regular
intercollegiate athletics, like football,
basketball, and baseball, have any privileges
that the other students didn't have? You mean
intramural? No, I mean who played on the college
team. Yes, I think they did. I know they had a
training table. They ate at a... what they call a
training table together, you know. Well, it was on
the football squad, and I don't remember for
certain about the other sports, but I think
possibly so, but I know the football, being made
together.
But did they stay with their regular company then?
Best I can remember, yes. I think then each
dormitory was sort of assigned to companies.
That's right. Depending upon the size, there'd be
one or more companies in a dormitory. That's true.
That's right.
Earlier you mentioned that part of what was your
senior year, the fall of 1918, You were not on
campus, actually. You were in Officer's Training
School. Where was that? That was near Waco, Camp
MacArthur. I don't think it's in existence any
longer. Okay, so... It was just a tent. We lived in
tents. Did you go there immediately after the end
of your junior year? No. We first went... for a
month at Fort Sheridan in the ROTC program. That's
in Illinois. That would have been in June? Yes, in
June. And then while we were there, about
the time that month was up, they offered us a
two-month
enlistment for an additional a training camp
at that same location other than the ROTC camp and
some of us stayed and some of them got commissions
from that but I did not and I went on back at the end of
that two months to school and we enlisted there in
the what was then called the SATC and I stayed there
at school possibly a week, and we were then, most of
us, sent to camp back out there. And this SATC stood
for what? Student Army Training Corps, I believe.